Dallas ISD  
057905  
  
SAFETY PROGRAM/RISK MANAGEMENT CKE 
SECURITY PERSONNEL (LOCAL)  
DATE ISSUED: 2/3/2021    1 of 3 
LDU 2021.05  
CKE(LOCAL)-X   
The Board has established a District Police and Security Services 
Department in accordance with statutory provisions. [See CKE 
(LEGAL)] The policies, rules, and regulations promulgated by the 
Board, as well as the general and criminal laws of the State of 
Texas, are hereby declared in full force and effect within the areas 
of control and jurisdiction of the District. 
The Superintendent of Schools shall designate a Chief of Police 
who will have immediate direction and control of the Police and Se-
curity Services Department, subject to the supervision of the Su-
perintendent of Schools. 
The Chief of Police will promulgate a department “Policy and Pro-
cedures Manual” which shall include copies of the “General Or-
ders,” “Code of Conduct,” and “Policies and Procedures”. The 
manual will include and consist of the department’s regulations, 
rules, standards, and procedures for the government and good or-
der of District Police and Security Services Department personnel. 
The official copy will be maintained by the Police Department. 
District police and security officers shall adhere to regulations of 
the District Police Department Policies and Procedures Manual 
and applicable departmental directives governing police-related 
and nonpolice-related extra employment. 
It is the philosophy of the Board that the primary emphasis of the 
Police and Security Services Department be to support and nurture 
the learning of students through the implementation of prevention 
and intervention strategies and techniques supportive of campus 
administration. The purpose of the Police and Security Services 
Department is to support the District’s mission. [See AE(LOCAL)] 
The mission of the Police and Security Services Department is to 
ensure a safe and secure learning, teaching, and work environ-
ment. 
The jurisdiction of the peace officers commissioned by the Board 
includes all territory within the boundaries of the District and all 
property real and personal outside the boundaries of the District 
owned, leased, rented by, or otherwise under the control of, the 
District. [See CKE(LEGAL)] 
Police officers employed by the District shall have all the powers, 
privileges, and immunities of police officers on or off duty within the 
jurisdiction of the District. Subject to limitations in law, District po-
lice officers, acting within their role as District employees, shall 
have the authority to: 
1. Protect the safety and welfare of any person in the jurisdiction 
of the District and protect the property of the District. 
District Police and 
Security Officers 
Philosophy and 
Mission 
Jurisdiction 
Police Authority 
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
Dallas ISD  
057905  
  
SAFETY PROGRAM/RISK MANAGEMENT CKE 
SECURITY PERSONNEL (LOCAL)  
DATE ISSUED: 2/3/2021    2 of 3 
LDU 2021.05  
CKE(LOCAL)-X   
(金) Enforce all laws, including municipal ordinances, county ordi-
nances, and state laws, and investigate violations of law as 
needed. In doing so, District police officers may serve search 
warrants in connection with District-related investigations in 
compliance with the Texas Code of Criminal Procedure, Texas 
Education Code, Texas Penal Code, and Family Code. 
3. Arrest suspects consistent with state and federal statutory 
and constitutional standards governing arrests, including ar-
rests without warrant, for offenses that occur in the officer’s 
presence or under the other rules set out in the Texas Code of 
Criminal Procedure, Texas Education Code, Texas Penal 
Code, and Family Code. 
4. Coordinate and cooperate with commissioned officers of all 
other law enforcement agencies in the enforcement of this 
policy as necessary. 
5. Provide enforcement for criminal actions of State and Federal 
laws that violate District policies, rules, and regulations, on 
District property, in school zones, at bus stops, or at District 
functions. [See CKE(LEGAL) and CKEA(LEGAL)] 
6. Investigate criminal violations of the law based on District pol-
icy, rules, and regulations as requested by the Superintendent 
and participate in hearings concerning alleged violations. [See 
CKE(LEGAL) and GKA] 
7. Carry weapons as directed by the chief of police and ap-
proved by the Superintendent. 
8. Carry out all other duties as directed by the chief of police or 
Superintendent. 
Security officers are employees of the District and are empowered 
to enforce policies, rules, and regulations promulgated by the 
Board while on District property or at District-sponsored events. 
All District officers shall receive at least the minimum amount of ed-
ucation and training required by law. 
The District Police and Security Services Department and all law 
enforcement agencies with which it has overlapping jurisdiction 
shall enter into a memorandum of understanding (MOU) that out-
lines reasonable communication and coordination efforts among 
the departments and agencies. All MOUs shall be approved by the 
Superintendent of Schools. Established MOUs shall be reviewed 
annually and renewed as necessary. 
Security Officers’ 
䄀畴桯爀椀琀礀 
吀爀慩湩渀最 
Memorandum of 
Understanding 
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
Dallas ISD  
057905  
  
SAFETY PROGRAM/RISK MANAGEMENT CKE 
SECURITY PERSONNEL (LOCAL)  
DATE ISSUED: 2/3/2021   ADOPTED: 3 of 3 
LDU 2021.05  
CKE(LOCAL)-X   
The use of force by District police officers is authorized in accord-
ance with Sections 9.51, 9.52, and 9.62 of the Texas Penal Code, 
and existing District policy. Restrictions on the use of force pursu-
ant to Section 9.51 and 9.52 shall be promulgated in the General 
Orders manual. 
The use of force by District security officers is authorized in accord-
ance with Section 9.62 of the Texas Penal Code and existing Dis-
trict policy. 
While in the jurisdiction provided by this policy, vehicle pursuits 
shall only be initiated by District police officers if there are reasona-
ble grounds to believe that the suspect being pursued has commit-
ted a violent felony offense; and there is a substantial risk to the 
public if the suspect is allowed to remain at large. 
District police officers shall not initiate vehicle pursuits for traffic vi-
olations; nor shall they participate in pursuits initiated by other law 
enforcement agencies.  
This policy was last amended on January 28, 2021. 
Use of Force 
Police Officers 
Security Officers 
Vehicle Pursuit 
Adoption or Last 
Amendment Date 
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
